A case or in this video we're going to look at how we can modify our tables in our database by adding
and removing columns.
So here I've selected stuff from products and we're going to look at the select statement later on in
the course in future sections.
But for now what you need to know is that when you select store from a table it's just going to retrieve
all the data in that table.
So here I selected stuff from products and you can see down here.
Returns the free columns that we set up.
So our ID card in my name column on our price column within the products table.
So now I want to add a fourth column.
I want to add coffee origin column and this is going to contain a word.
So a country of origin of the coffee.
So Brazil Indonesia etc. so to modify a table we need to type out a table followed by the table name.
So in this case it's going to be products and then on the next line we need to type I'd call them to
write or column.
Table Table name followed by column and then the column name.
So in this case it's going to be coffee origin and then we just need to finish that off with the data
type.
So it's going to be a string.
So it's going to be a vulture.
And set the maximum length to 30.
Now we just need to run that statement and then select stuff from Puddock again.
And now we have all four of them have coffee origin.
So that's how we add columns to a table is alter table table name calling column name followed by the
data type.
So now let's look at how we can remove columns from tables to do that.
We also need to alter our table and we need to follow up by the table name.
So let's alter the table products and then on the next slide we need to type drop column.
So to remove a column from a table we type called column followed by the column name.
So let's remove coffee origin which we just did
and let's run that statement and select start from Pollocks table again.
And you can see now we just have our original free columns ID name and price coffee origin has been
removed from the table.
So that's how we either remove columns from the table.
Actually for the following videos and sections in this course.
I do want the coffee origin column in our table.
So let's add it back again.
And now we have our coffee origin calling back again.
So that's it for this video.